I have been experimenting with running the performance benchmarking on two machines: A MacBook and a Desktop. The Desktop being faster over all is no big surprise, however, what i do find interesting, is that it also consistently obtains a larger speedup in comparison to the MacBook. Whether it is with vectorization or numba, the performance gain is relatively larger when comparing both machines to the base results obtained on the same machines. See performance_log.txt where i keep track of experiments if interested.

This hints that not only is the processor stronger, but it also has something 'smart' that enables it to leverage the optimizations better than the MacBook processor. I have no idea what this could be, but would like to learn at some point.

When experimenting with float64 vs float32 numba implementations, i initially observed slightly slower performance on a 1024x1024 grid when using float32. So i believed, that the chip was as optimized for float32 operations as for float64 operations, and since the data could still fit comfortably in L1 cache the performance should be nearly identical, and that the slightly slower performance in the float32 version was due to the down-casting that i did on the np.linspace arrays which in my numpy version no longer accepts the dtype=x parameter (i have not profiled this yet). 

But then i did the same experiment on a 2048x2048 grid, and now the float32 implementation was indeed faster, so this kind of breaks my initial thought process and i, to be honest, do not really know why this happens. It cannot be due to L1 cache being escaped, 2048x2048 with float64 still fitts just fine. So perhaps the chip does indeed go faster on float32, but i first observe this in my expermiment when the number of operations increase and the overhead of down-casting the linspace arrays diminishes? I also do include the creation of the arrays/grid in my performance benchmarking, which i inntially thought was a good idea - but in this case it is perhaps a weakness.

Most of this, i know what i could do to find out, but for now - i will be lazy and live in mistery for just a little while longer.